---
layout: post
---










July 27, 2010, 9:36 am

# Work. Urgh. #

Sooo, it’s been ages since I last posted something, mostly cos it’s a biatch to get on tumblr at home.

Holidays so far:

1. Trip to Manchester
2. 21st in London
3. 21st in Oxford
4. Wedding in Oxford
5. Work! For like a month.

All was good, work is okay: I’m teaching elderly people how to use a mouse and send email. It’s a little painful, but bearable and awesome pay. That’s only part of my job: the main part is heavy lifting and driving milkfloats! I’ll post some photos up at some point.

I also failed 2 of my maths modules, so on the 14th of August I’ll be heading back up to Edinburgh for a couple of weeks. Resits, festival, chill time. Should be awesome.

I&#8217;ve also been working on some coding stuff with [xoebushttp://xoebus.heroku.com/] . When github released it&#8217;s organisations stuff, we set up [LolSofthttp://lolsoft.github.com]  (no prizes for guessing where the name comes from!). We&#8217;ve been working mostly on the at-tools suite, which is designed to make working in AT much easier. It&#8217;s gone fairly well, and I&#8217;ve been learning a lot.
I&#8217;m also working on a program called [inthelabshttp://github.com/shearn89/inthelabs] , which should allow you to see who&#8217;s in the labs at any point, via a web frontend or the gui client. Currently its built in Ruby, with a Rails frontend. I hope to use facebook connect at some point to allow users to login and see which friends are in the labs. Perhaps even in the long run I&#8217;ll write an iphone app or something. We&#8217;ll see.

Lastly, #gear! I’m going to buy a macbook in September. It’ll be badass.
    

