content/posts/2021-01-05-hugo-migration.md, before:

---
title: Migration to Hugo
date: 2022-01-05T16:33:11Z
lastmod: 2022-01-05T16:33:11Z
draft: true
description: "Migrating the blog from Jekyll to Hugo"

tags:
- blog
- writing
- technical
categories:
- other

toc: false
featuredImage: ""
---
I decided to update the blog, only to discover that Jekyll is now quite old, the framework around it that I used is not maintained, and generally could do with a change.
<!--more-->
With that in mind, I've ported it over to [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) which seems much more appropriate! It's written in Go, and I also wanted to flex my AWS skills some more and set up my own CI/CD and hosting infrastructure, rather than using GitHub Pages.

I've set this up as a GitHub repo, but the CI/CD is now done by AWS CodeBuild. That runs the `hugo` command to generate the static files, and then uploads them to S3.

S3 is configured as a private bucket, with a CloudFront distribution in front of it. This way if any of my posts ever go viral (unlikely, but I can hope!) then I'll not have issues with load.

## Issues Encountered

Porting over to Hugo wasn't too painful, but I did have to dig into my chosen theme to work out where to put things and how to lay things out. It's not quite as intuitive! Once I'd got my head around that, it wasn't too bad.

Next issue was with the build - trying to get the Hugo Go module set up in CodeBuild was contentious. First it didn't like my `go install` syntax. Then I got this error:

```
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:28:22 Entering phase INSTALL
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:28:22 Running command go get github.com/gohugoio/hugo
package github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2: cannot find package "github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2" in any of:
    /root/.goenv/versions/1.14.12/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2 (from $GOROOT)
    /go/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2 (from $GOPATH)
    /codebuild/output/src251579062/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2
package github.com/jdkato/prose/transform: cannot find package "github.com/jdkato/prose/transform" in any of:
    /root/.goenv/versions/1.14.12/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform (from $GOROOT)
    /go/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform (from $GOPATH)
    /codebuild/output/src251579062/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform
unrecognized import path "io/fs": import path does not begin with hostname

[Container] 2022/01/05 16:38:15 Command did not exit successfully go get github.com/gohugoio/hugo exit status 1
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:38:15 Phase complete: INSTALL State: FAILED
```

Based on [this GitHub comment](https://github.com/aws/aws-codebuild-docker-images/issues/425#issuecomment-858179595), it looks like it's because CodeBuild uses an old version of Go. Adding the recommended commands to my `buildspec.yml`

Commit message:

Adding images and updating buildspec

content/posts/2021-01-05-hugo-migration.md, after:

---
title: Migration to Hugo
date: 2022-01-05T16:33:11Z
lastmod: 2022-01-05T16:33:11Z
draft: true
description: "Migrating the blog from Jekyll to Hugo"

tags:
- blog
- writing
- technical
categories:
- other

toc: false
featuredImage: "/images/hugo-logo.png"
featuredImagePreview: "/images/hugo-logo-preview.png"
---
I decided to update the blog, only to discover that Jekyll is now quite old, the framework around it that I used is not maintained, and generally could do with a change.
<!--more-->
With that in mind, I've ported it over to [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/) which seems much more appropriate! It's written in Go, and I also wanted to flex my AWS skills some more and set up my own CI/CD and hosting infrastructure, rather than using GitHub Pages.

I've set this up as a GitHub repo, but the CI/CD is now done by AWS CodeBuild. That runs the `hugo` command to generate the static files, and then uploads them to S3.

S3 is configured as a private bucket, with a CloudFront distribution in front of it. This way if any of my posts ever go viral (unlikely, but I can hope!) then I'll not have issues with load.

## Issues Encountered

Porting over to Hugo wasn't too painful, but I did have to dig into my chosen theme to work out where to put things and how to lay things out. It's not quite as intuitive! Once I'd got my head around that, it wasn't too bad.

Next issue was with the build - trying to get the Hugo Go module set up in CodeBuild was contentious. First it didn't like my `go install` syntax. Then I got this error:

```
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:28:22 Entering phase INSTALL
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:28:22 Running command go get github.com/gohugoio/hugo
package github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2: cannot find package "github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2" in any of:
    /root/.goenv/versions/1.14.12/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2 (from $GOROOT)
    /go/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2 (from $GOPATH)
    /codebuild/output/src251579062/src/github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2
package github.com/jdkato/prose/transform: cannot find package "github.com/jdkato/prose/transform" in any of:
    /root/.goenv/versions/1.14.12/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform (from $GOROOT)
    /go/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform (from $GOPATH)
    /codebuild/output/src251579062/src/github.com/jdkato/prose/transform
unrecognized import path "io/fs": import path does not begin with hostname

[Container] 2022/01/05 16:38:15 Command did not exit successfully go get github.com/gohugoio/hugo exit status 1
[Container] 2022/01/05 16:38:15 Phase complete: INSTALL State: FAILED
```

Based on [this GitHub comment](https://github.com/aws/aws-codebuild-docker-images/issues/425#issuecomment-861921069), it looks like it's because CodeBuild uses an old version of Go. Adding the recommended commands to my `buildspec.yml`
